Amorphous Builder (Ambi)

Ambi is a python program for creating polymeric molecular structures.



The first stage is to specify the molecular building blocks. This is done with two files:
* a s.car file that contains the coordinates, atom-types etc.
* a .csv file that defines which atoms are endGroups, capAtoms etc.

The .car file is a standard Insight II file, which can be prepared with programs such as Avogadro or Materials Studio.
More information can be found about the format here:
http://chem5.nchc.org.tw/software/document2007/insightII/doc/formats980/File_Formats_1998.html#781840

The .csv file should be named identically to the .car file, but with a .csv suffix instead of .car. The .csv
file is a standard comma-separated file that can be created and edited with any spreadsheet program. The first
line is a header that names the columns (case isn't important, but the field names must be correct):

Type,EndGroup,CapAtom,Dihedral,DelAtom

Each subsequent line defines an endgroup, with the columns separated by a comma. The first three columns are
required, the other two are optional

The meanings of the columns are:
* Type: this is just a string (starting with a letter) that names the endgroup and is used to specify bonding rules
  and to control which endgroups in which building blocks are bonded in Grow or Join steps (see later).
* EndGroup: this is the index of the atom in the .car file that is to be the endgroup. The endgroups are the atoms
  that are bonded together by ambi. The indexing starts from 0, so if the first atom in the car file is to be the
  endgroup, the endgroup column should be zero. If it was the 6th atom, the column should have 5 in it. All other 
  indexes also start from zero.
* CapAtom: this is the atom that caps the endgroup and defines the vector that the bond will be be made along. The
  captom is removed when the bond is formed and the corresponding endgroup in the other block will replace the capatom,
  although the other endgroup will probably not be in the same position, as length of the bond will be dependent on 
  the types of the two endgroups.
* Dihedral: this is an optional column that specifies the atom that defines the dihedral angle around the bond between
  two endgroups. This can be used to specify the orientation of molecules when they are attached with a Grow step.
* DelAtom: this is an optional column that specifies an atom that will be removed when the endgroup forms a bond this
  can be used to unsaturate an atom on bonding. So for example, if the endgroup is the N of an NH2, then one of the H
  atoms could be the capatom and the other the delatom, so that the on bonding to another NH2 endgroup a N=N bond would
  be formed.
  
